# About Quizzard

## Overview
Quizzard is a web application designed to allow users to study different topics using a variety of different modes. A user is able to create an account with Quizzard and then login using their credentials. From there, they are able to manage their account information and update their information, including their password, first name, last name, and/or email address. They are also able to create Study Sets, which are collections of flashcards that are grouped together under a certain name. As expected, a flashcard has both a term and a definition to them. Once a Study Set is created, they are able to be edited and deleted. Study Sets can be edited by adding new flashcards to the already existing set, and when deleted they are no longer in the Quizzard system and cannot be accessed by the user. Once a user has created their Study Sets, they have a choice of 3 different modes to study. There is a standard study mode, which behaves very similarly to Quizlet's study mode. A user is able to browse through the flashcards for any Study Set that they have associated with them. They can also flip the flashcard to see both the term and definition. The user also has the option to study using the fill in the blank mode. In this mode, a user chooses a study set and then are given a fill in the blank quiz with every flashcard in the set. The user fills in the blanks with their answers, ahd clicks to check their answers. They are then shown which ones they got incorrect, and are also shown a score. Finally, the user has the option to study in a multiple choice mode. The user can click through their study set, answering multiple choice questions and seeing what they get wrong. These various study modes give users an interative study approach, making it easier and more fun to learn topics. 

## How Quizzard Was Built
Quizzard is a Maven web application that was built using an object-oriented approach with the help of several frameworks and technologies. Quizzard's backend was built using Spring Boot to handle all needed dependencies. To handle storing information in a database, the MySQL relational database system was used to store User records and Study Sets while Hibernate was used to handle the persistence of these records into the database. To allow users to interact to the backend of the Quizzard application from the frontend, several REST APIs were implemented. Separate API endpoints were built to handle any GET, PUT, POST, or DELETE calls that would be made by the user. For the frontend, HTML5 and embedded CSS were used to build each webpage in the Quizzard application. AngularJS was used in each individual webpage to make API calls and to make each webpage interactive. 

## Demo
For a demo, click here
